Now let's take a look
at Feature Crosses.
Feature Crosses is the main thing
that we're going to be talking
about in this section.
We're also going to
take a quick look
at encoding features.
What are Feature crosses?
Well, they combine
multiple features
together into a new feature.
That's fundamentally
what a feature across.
It encodes non-linearity
in the feature space,
or encodes the same information
and fewer features.
We can create many
different kinds of
feature crosses and it
really depends on our data.
It requires a little bit of
imagination to look for
ways to try to do that,
to combine the
features that we have.
For example, if we have
numerical features,
we could multiply two
features and produce
one feature that has an
expression of those two features.
X number of features,
we could multiply
them all together if
there are numerical features and
then end up with
one feature instead
of say five. That's great.
We can also take
categorical features or
even numerical features and
combine them in ways that
make a semantic sense.
Taking the day of
the week and hour,
if those are two different
features that we have,
putting those together, we
can express that as the hour
of the week and we have
the same information
in one feature.
To encode features, well,
let's look at some examples.
Suppose we have a
data-set that's looking
at healthy trees and sick tree.
We're going to use a
scatter-plot to try
to understand our data.
We're looking at the
scatter plot and we
use some visualization tools,
and we ask ourselves,
can we draw a line to
separate these two groups,
these two clusters?
If we can use a line to
create the decision boundary,
then we know that we can use
a linear model. That's great.
In this case, looking at this,
we could use a line to
do that separation.
That's great. Linear
models are very efficient.
We love that, but let's suppose
the data looks like this.
Not so easy anymore.
This becomes a
non-linear program.
Then the question is,
can we project this data into
a linear space and use
it with a linear model,
or do we have to use
a non-linear model
to work with this data?
Because if we try to draw
just a linear classification
boundary with a data as is,
it doesn't really work too great.
Again, we can use
visualization tools
to help us understand this.
Looking at our data
really helps inform
us and guide the choices that we
make as developers
about what kind of
models we choose and what
feature engineering we apply.
Key points here,
Feature Crossing as
a way to create
synthetic features,
often encoding non-linearity
in the features space.
We're going to transform both
categorical and numerical.
We could do that in, into
either continuous variables
or the other way around.